# visual-basic-tutorial

Visual Basic tutorial demonstrating core concepts with simple functions

Visual Basic Tutorial
1.	Buttons and Textboxes: Type anything in to the text box, then press the write button. The text from the text box will change the text on the write button. Press the clear button to clear the text box and reset the write Button text. Press the quit button to quit the program. The write button text property is set equal to text box text property, when the write button is pressed whatever is in the text box will now become the write button text property. The clear button is set to clear the text box and reset the original text property to the write button.
2.	Looping and Arrays: Press the Concepts button to display all of the required final project concepts. A For Loop will access the arrays of numbers and concepts, then output the matching index positions to the list box. Press the quit button to quit the program.  The numbers array is filled with the numbers 1 through 7, while the concepts array is filled with corresponding concepts. The For Loop goes through both array indexes and the matching index numbers are output together to the list box.

3.	LINQ and Text Files: Press the Concepts button to display all of the required final project concepts. A LINQ query will access the concepts.txt file, located in the bin/debug subfolder and output it formatted to data grid view box. Press the quit button to quit the program. The concepts array is filled with the data from the concepts.txt file by reading all of the lines. A LINQ query finds the specified lines from the array, formats them, and the data is output to the data grid view box.
4.	Drop-down Lists and List Boxes: Select a number from the drop down list. The numbers correspond to each concept required in the tutorial. Press the show button to display the concept in the list box. Press the clear button to reset the number from the drop down list                and the erase the concept in the list box. Press the quit button to quit the program. Conditional If and Else If conditional statements are paired with specific combo box index number selection corresponding to tutorial concepts, which are output to the list box. 
5.	Functions and Classes: Select a number from the drop down list. The numbers correspond to each concept required in the tutorial. Press the show button to display the concept in the list box. Press the clear button to reset the number from the drop down list and the erase the concept in the list box. A subroutine makes a call to the Numbers method within the separate Number class. The output to the list box depends on the selected index number chosen, paired with the If and Else If conditional statements that returns the associated value.

6.	Graphics and how to insert graphics into a program: Load the program and the picture box paper airplane will fly from the top left corner of the form to the bottom. A picture boxes background image property is set a picture. The form background color is set to the same background color of the picture. The picture box starts where it is placed. An interval timer property is set and is added to the form. The timer is enabled and the picture box will move with every interval. As long as it does not go below the x or y 0 axis point and over the client size width and height subtracted by the picture box size width and height, the picture box will move along the x and y axis points left and up increasing by one at every interval.

